IESG Charter Feedback for REGEXT (#55)
OR13/diem-draft-charter: regext/charter.md

The Registration Protocols Extensions working group (REGEXT) is chartered to coordinate and standardize extensions to the Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP) and the Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP).

The Extensible Provisioning Protocol (EPP, STD 69) is the standard application-layer client-server protocol for the provisioning and management of objects stored in a shared central repository.

The Registration Data Access Protocol (RDAP, STD 95) is the standard for retrieving registration data and metadata from both Domain Name Registries (DNRs) and Regional Internet Registries (RIRs). 

The working group may publish proposed standard and experimental extensions to EPP and RDAP.
The working group may publish informational and best current practice documents for EPP and RDAP.
The working group may revise the registration procedures for the EPP and RDAP registries.
The working group will discuss new registrations with the designated experts for the EPP and RDAP registries.
When the working group is closed, the mailing list will remain open and available for the use of the expert review process.

> A primary goal of the working group is to ensure the profiles and extensions are easily discoverable and understood, and to avoid duplicate effort that could harm interoperability.

Reviewer: It should be safe to simply remove "profiles and" since profiles are forms of extensions.

> A primary goal of the working group is to ensure the profiles and extensions are easily discoverable and understood, and to avoid duplicate effort that could harm interoperability.

Author: ```suggestion
A primary goal of the working group is to ensure the extensions are easily discoverable and understood, and to avoid duplicate effort that could harm interoperability.
```

In addition to publishing extensions, the working group may publish proposed standards addressing interoperability issues that are adjacent to EPP and RDAP.

For example:

> * Data formats for files exchanged between registration entities that need insertion in or extraction from EPP or RDAP.

Author: Per https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/regext/U582pEXDdbAHPnf1Ala2B2QNLVs/
```suggestion
* Data formats for exchanges between registration entities that need insertion in or extraction from EPP or RDAP.
```

> * Data formats for exchanges between registration entities that need insertion in or extraction from EPP or RDAP.

Reviewer: The phrase "... insertion in or extraction from EPP or RDAP" reads weird since EPP and RDAP are not databases. Since EPP is a read-write protocol and RDAP a read protocol, how about replacing that phrase with something like "... insertion using EPP, or extraction using EPP or RDAP"?

> * Data formats for exchanges between registration entities that need insertion in or extraction from EPP or RDAP.

Author: ```suggestion
* Data formats for exchanges between registration entities that need insertion or extraction using EPP, or extraction using RDAP.
```

Reviewer 2: This isn't correct. "insertion or extraction using EPP, or extraction using RDAP" is what's needed.

EPP is a read/write protocol. RDAP is read-only.

Author: updated

Reviewer 2: @jasdips I said above that "insertion or extraction using EPP, or extraction using RDAP" *is* correct and what's needed.

Reviewer: @shollenbeck Though it is ok to update as you suggested but just curious why "insertion using EPP, or extraction using EPP or RDAP" is not correct? I was grouping action, insertion or extraction, by protocol(s).

Reviewer 2: @jasdips ""insertion using EPP, or extraction using EPP or RDAP" could also work.

Reviewer: @shollenbeck Cool beans. That's what I had initially proposed. Was just curious. :)

But, on further thought, your suggestion of grouping actions by each protocol is more clear.

> * The specification of application transport protocols for EPP based on existing RFCs.

Author: Per https://mailarchive.ietf.org/arch/msg/regext/U582pEXDdbAHPnf1Ala2B2QNLVs/

```suggestion
*  The specification of application transport protocols for EPP based on existing RFCs, with proper review and advice from the relevant transport protocol working group.
```

> *  The specification of application transport protocols for EPP based on existing RFCs, with proper review and advice from the relevant transport protocol working group.

Author: ```suggestion
*  The specification of application transport protocols for EPP based on existing RFCs, with proper review and advice from the relevant protocol working groups.
```
